{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf0 You can see that this is similar to our previous CSS class sample, other than I\'92ve added in some more hierarchy to what\'92s going on. What I want to do here is to add in a font family for three things: I\'92ll do the headlines (and subheads), the body type, and the caption type. If we have time I\'92ll also do a pull quote. \
\
We\'92re going to start with the body type because it\'92s the most important. \
\
\
So that almost immediately gives us some hierarchy. The next thing to do is to install a fun font family, with some fallbacks. Go to https://www.google.com/fonts, and start looking around (show sorting, etc.) \
\
I\'92m going to pick a font called Merriweather, because it has multiple styles. If you pop it out and look at it, you can also see that it has a lot of characters (glyphs), as well as a sans-serif variant. We\'92ll come back to that in a bit. \
\
So to use this on your page, we can use \'93quick use\'94 and follow the Google directions. I\'92m going to select all the font families, so I can demo to you what I\'92m going to be using and how the font-weight property works. \
\
Now scroll down and add the code straight to the head element of your page. This is basically linking to an external stylesheet. \
\

\b GOT TO HERE IN CLASS-UPLOADED EXAMPLE TO BB\
\

\b0 GRID LECTURE \

\b \
\

\b0 So to use this on your page, we can use \'93quick use\'94 and follow the Google directions. I\'92m going to select all the font families, so I can demo to you what I\'92m going to be using and how the font-weight property works. \
\
Now, I\'92m going to (for the purposes of this example) use this font for the entire page. \
\
First, I\'92m going to open a second browser tab with this in it, so I can compare. \
\
So I\'92ll add this to the top of my stylesheet: \
\
body \{\
	font-family: 'Merriweather', "Times New Roman", serif;\
\}	\
\
What that will do is change the whole body for us, so we can see how this will be different and style individual items without having to put that whole declaration into a style. We can just use the font-weight declaration to change individual styles. \
\
What we\'92ll see once we do this is that the browser is actually going to style those for us, because we\'92re using a decently new browser. Not all browsers will do this, so we\'92ll still need to specify font weights. \
\
Now, I\'92m going to look back and forth between the two, so I can see if this will work even if default styles are involved. It looks pretty ok so far. \
\
To demonstrate adding the styles, we can play around with our h1: \
\
#header h1 \{\
	font-size: 80px;\
	font-style: italic;\
	font-weight: 700;\
	margin-top: 20px;\
	margin-bottom: 10px;\
\}\
\
change that font-weight to 300, 400, 700, 900 \
\
We can get the italic effect simply by adding the font-style italic into the code. (Reminder of font shorthand cheat sheet). So we\'92ve already upped our type game by writing two lines of code. \
\
To make this start looking really nice, we\'92re going to need to do a couple of other things. One of the first things that I tend to do is to try to alter the line-height in my paragraphs \'97 just a bit can make a big difference. \
\
Let\'92s pretend we\'92re back in hs and need to double-space a paper. Line-height is by default set at about 130%, where 100 percent is no space between the em box. There are a few ways we can set the line height, but the easiest is a percentage \'97 200% is double, less than that is, well, less. Usually something on the order of 150-175 works pretty ok, depending on the font. (This one has a relatively large x-height, so more space may be necessary compared with one that does not.) \
\
Now, what would I do if I wanted to change the font hierarchy a bit more? One thing might be to use a slightly different color, like gray, for a hover over my navigation. We can activate that on the pseudo-class of a:hover and a:active, so let\'92s do that. \
\
#nav a:hover, #nav a:active \{\
	color: #888;\
\}\
\
demonstrate 999, aaa, bbb, ccc, etc. \
\
That will flash straight to the gray color, but at least it\'92s another indicator (for non-mobile) that it\'92s clickable. \
\

\b Got to here in class
\b0 \
\
Now, the next thing I\'92m going to do is to add a sans-serif font to this, just for variation. You see a lot of sites that have the serif and sans mix, and in this case I picked a font (Meriweather) that has a paired sans font, meant to work with it. \
\
Show type connection  site \
\
First off, I\'92m going to go back here and grab just the normal and heavy/heavy ital weights of Meriweather: \
\
<link href='http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Merriweather:400,700,700italic' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'>\
\
I\'92m also going to grab Meriweather Sans and use just the normal and bold and bold ital variations: \
\
<link href='http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Merriweather+Sans:400,700,700italic' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'>\
\
What I want to do at this point is to make my display type Meriweather Sans, and my body type the serif font. This is a pretty common choice you see in a lot of places, because in general serif type is a bit easier to read for a long time. \
\
So there are a couple of strategies to do this. Because we know that css inheritance is a thing, we could always just add the Meriweather Sans style to our headers: \
\
h1, h2, h3 \{\
	font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;\
\}\
\
and, I mean, that\'92s alright, but it adds to load time because the site has to draw first one font then the other. In this case, we aren\'92t really seeing the font flash, but in slower/older browsers or on other connections, you can see a distinct change in the font. So what I\'92d want to do is to add it individually to each place where I wanted it: \
\
#nav a:link, #nav a:visited \{\
	font-family: 'Merriweather Sans', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;\
	display: block;\
\
there, for example. \
}